---
title: "Create More Engaging Shopping Experiences with A/B Testing"
description: In the online shopping world, customer experience is everything. Let's learn how A/B testing can improve it.
locale: en
isPublished: true
publishedAt: "2022-07-10"
tags:
  - ux-research
  - design
  - ecommerce
  - testing
---

Imagine the situation in which you are working on a landing page for your
product, and you have to choose between a few different layouts. All of them
look great, and it is tough to choose one.

This is the kind of situation in which A/B testing can help you.

## What is A/B Testing? Why it's important?

A/B testing (sometimes referred to as split testing) is a method of determining
which website design, functionality or content works better for your website
visitors.

This process allows you to answer crucial business questions. It sets the
foundation for data-based marketing strategies and ultimately helps you generate
more revenue from your website traffic.

How does it work practically? You show 50% of visitors version A of your design
and 50% of visitors version B. The version that results in a higher conversion
rate wins and will become the standard layout for 100% of the website visitors.
Simple no?

As you can imagine, A/B testing is precious because it helps your website
design-related decisions be data-driven. For example, after testing some changes
to the website navigation, you could discover if your customers find it easier
to navigate between products with tags and filters or if they prefer more
traditional navigation approaches.

## How to run A/B testing?

![Some stickers on the wall, a good way to generate A/B testing
hypothesis](/images/blog/ux-hypothesis-generation.jpg)

First, it is critical to have a solid hypothesis to test. Formulating a
hypothesis might sound like an easy process, but it can be trickier than
expected. Unlike a simple idea, a strong hypothesis is made up of three
components: defining a problem, describing a proposed solution, and measuring
results.

As [Zoe Gillenwater](https://zomigi.com/), lead designer at Booking.com, teach
us: "Never, ever run a test just because you can. Only run a test because you
have a strong hypothesis of why it will be worthwhile to make that change."

Suppose you want to learn more about the hypothesis generation process. In that
case, we strongly suggest you a great article from Nida Zehra, Senior Content
Marketer at Airmeet: [How to Create a Strong A/B Testing
Hypothesis?](https://vwo.com/blog/ab-testing-hypothesis/)

Step 2: define how long your test should run. According to
[Optimizely](https://www.optimizely.com/optimization-glossary/statistical-significance/),
"statistical significance is the likelihood that the difference in conversion
rates between a given variation and the baseline is not due to random chance."

Therefore, to get significant results from your A/B test, you should not stop
testing until you are 95%â€“99% confident that you achieved accurate results.
Depending on your website's traffic levels, this may take days, weeks or months.

Finally, it's time to choose a tool. Some valid options are [Visual Website
Optimizer (VWO)](https://vwo.com/), [Optimizely](https://www.optimizely.com/)
and [Google Optimize](https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/optimize/).

Also, Shopify has some of A/B testing tools on its [App
Store](https://apps.shopify.com/) that you might find interesting.

## A/B testing in Shopify

![A laptop showing a Shopify blog post about how to start your ecommerce
website](/images/blog/laptop-start-with-shopify.jpg)

So what could you test in your Shopify ecommerce?

An easy example could be running a test to determine whether changing titles,
product images or stock status messages will affect the add-to-cart rate.

Another widespread and useful place where to run A/B testing is at the checkout.
If you want your customers to complete a purchase, your checkout process must
flow as smoothly as possible.

A checkout process test might help determine whether a simple multipage checkout
or a single-page checkout will result in better conversions. You may also test
merging several small steps within the checkout process or using breadcrumbs to
tell your customers' users about the next steps of the process.

Finally, you may test whether customers are more willing to fill out the form
earlier or later in the buying process. Or if your customers are more inclined
to complete a form with fewer fields and more straightforward placeholder text
within the fields.

## Need support with A/B testing? We are happy to help!

A/B Testing on Shopify? We master it!

Our UX Researcher and UI Designers know how to build interfaces that work on
Shopify and can work in strong synergy with our marketing and SEO experts to
analyse testing results better.

[Get in touch with us](mailto:hello@shopmakers.tech). We would love to hear from
you!
